a personal philosophy is something that has always been sort of an odd concept to me. one one hand, it seems like everyone has one, whether intentionally or not: looking at the set of "the totality of one's opinions, guidelines, precepts, beliefs, and values", something akin to a personal philosophy would probably be a subset of this. on the other hand, it seems improper to assign the label of a personal philosophy to something so undirected.

to this end, i feel like i have to suppress my ego a bit: i certainly don't consider myself to be someone who has produced individual or novel thought, so what constitutes my personal philosophy might be nothing more than a collection of citations, an array of ideas better expressed by those who came before me. meri and i actually had a brief conversation about this recently. she mentioned that much of what i have to say about life is words from things i've read, and i think i largely agree with that. i feel the need to respect the origin of ideas i have, largely because i usually feel that i am not the first to have them, and that they have probably been expressed more properly in words other than mine. 

all the same, i think that this is probably an ok way for things to be! my understanding of these ideas, and the ways that they find context in my life, is certainly "personal" enough to call it mine. i also reject the idea that philosophy needs to be original to call it philosophy - i'm uncomfortable with categorically denying the possibility of value in retreading old paths.

however, i think what i write/think is probably NOT philosophy in an academic sense - i don't think anything i write here has any sort of application to a problem or field in modern philosophy, so at best this will be the musings of someone who has read a few books. my apologies in advance for the half-understandings and mal-appropriations that are likely to follow. 

so now that i've given my disclaimers, i think i'll write a bit about the things i think, the common threads that come up in them, and where they came from. i won't lay any special claim to whether this is "my" philosophy, but i'm the one typing this, so hey whatever. i'll risk a little self-indulgence. 

i'll start by writing a little bit about yale (pronounced yah-lay). yale is a deity that i invented back in 2016 while climbing mt. yale in colorado. when we summited, the winds were very strong, probably around 50-60mph, and we felt a little scared about being blown off the mountain, given that the last hundred meters to the top are a bit of an exposed scramble up a boulder pyramid. the joke at the time was that the winds were caused by the wind goddess yale, and that praying to her would grant us safety on our climb.

i've long liked the idea of having a personal deity or pantheon, because leaning into things is fun, and so i've developed my thinking about yale in the years since. yale is the wind and all that it embodies: motion, transience, an invisible force that is neither here nor there, but is strongly felt and undeniably "real". constantly shifting, there is never rest nor a sprint: she is present as much in her abscence as in her presence, just as a still day is only still because we can remember a windy day. she blesses and guides motion and all that moves, in every category and anti-category. things like gender, form, beliefs, or even a stable existence cannot be applied to her: these are all shifting at every moment. i call her a goddess because i like to, but this is of course only one element in the set (sets?) that she "is" or "could be". one way you could understand her is some sort of map from "the world" U not"the world" -> "the world" U not"the world".

i like yale because she is a representation of many things that i like in thought, and i feel comfortable taking her as my personal goddess because i feel a kinship with her properties. i take refuge in uncertainty, indeterminancy, ambiguity, movement, nature and harmony.

- motion/movement

i'll talk about motion first. i like motion in every way. motion in body (running, wandering, moving), motion in thought (continual re-evaluation/progression/searching amongst ideas and modes of thinking), motion in feeling (ability to change/transform one's emotional and internal states at will), motion in motion (not to cling to any one idea about "what motion is or can be") - as deleuze and guattari said, wandering can be found in those even that are quite sedentiary. 

- ontological ambiguity
tofu, buddha (arrow sutra), tientai emptiness(ziporyn )
- epistimological skepticism
zhuangzi (this view that view), buddha (this that conditionality), (ziporyn 3 truths)
- magic and reality
leaning in is fun, neither idealism nor empiricism, magic is real, magic is fake both being true, i'm a mage/sage/bodhisattva, not a philosopher.
- harmony 
zhuangzi (hong meng), bodhisattva path, being nice is more important than being right, zhuangzi knife cooker. slip through the cracks.